Basic Questions :

Q1. What are components of a computer ?
ans = monitor ,keyboard,hdd,RAM-random acces memory,ROM-read only meomry,cd-rom, CPU-central prcessing unit , mouse,SSD-solid state drive,graphics card 

Q2. Which CPU are you using in you laptop / mobile / PC ?
ans= intel 5th genration i5 processor , ryzon 5 AMD

Q3. What is size of RAM in your PC ?
ans = 16GB

Q4. Read Python documentation from
https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html

Q5. What are different implementations of Python ? Which implementation we are using ?
ans = Cpython for python (we are using this)
      jython for java
      pypy for c
      iron python for .NET , C#
      
Q6. Who created python ? in which year ? where ?
ans = python is created by Guido Van Rossum in 1991 in Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in the Netherlands

Q7. What is PVM ?
ans = PVM stands for Python Virtual Machine

Q8. Python is platform independent or not ? Which platforms python can run ?
ans = YES, it is a platform independent and currently python run windows , macOS , linux , cloud

Q9. Why python is platform independent ? What makes it platform independent ?
ans= Python is a platform independent language because it can be run on different platforms using an interpreter built specifically for that platform.
	
Q10. WAP to Print "Hello IACSD" and write comment describing author of the program and date created
ans= #this is the code of ruturaj and mahadev
     #and it was created on 6.19pm on 18th of september
     print("Hello IACSD")	

Q11. Find working of various functions (min 7) from math library of python which is provided as standard library. 
https://docs.python.org/3/library/math.html
You can also try it yourself.
Ex. 
import math
print(math.factorial(4))
print(math.sin(90))
ans = 

Q12. Open spyder IDE and create a python program (.py file) to print Hello world!. Run the program and check the put on console.


Q13.WAP using spyder IDE.  Import math library and print the gcd, lcm of two numbers.
ans = import math

print(math.gcd(5,8));   output = 1
print(math.lcm(5,8));   output = 60



Q14. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Print number of options you have, when you are given 5 different characters and you need to select 3 of them without repeatitions. (find permutations)
ans = import math                       output = 60
print(math.perm(5,3))

Q15. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Print number of options you have to select 20 students out of 60 without repeatitions. ( Obviously here order doesn't matter, so find combinations)
ans = import math
print(math.comb(60,20)) 	4191844505805495
 
Q16. WAP using spyder IDE. Use math library. Try to find log of zero. Which error is given ? 
Also try to find square root of any negative number. What error is give?
ans = import math			
print(math.log(0))		error = ValueError: math domain error

import math
print(math.sqrt(-2)) 


Q17. WAP to create a variable v1 and store any number. Find the square root of that number by using v1 in math.sqrt() function.
ans = import math
v1=10
print(math.sqrt(v1))		output = 3.16227

Q18. Why python is considered as slow compared to C, C++ ?
Refer : https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3033329/why-are-python-programs-often-slower-than-the-equivalent-program-written-in-c-or c++
ans = Because its build on c and c++ languages concept and its made more user friendly by hiding the lower level details from user. internally it is slow because the python code is 
interpreted at runtime instead of being compiled to native code at compile time.


Q19. Check where .pyc files are stored after you run the program for Q15. 
ans = 

Advanced Assignments
Q. What are different extensions supported by python?
What is meaning of .py , .pyc, .pyz, .pyo, .pyd , etc extensions supported by python ?
ans +.py , .pyc,.pyz , .pyo, .pyd etc extension are supported in python.
1) .py means the script is written in python language. It can be edited using text editor but should run with python interpreter.
2) .pyc files are compiled bytecode files that are generated by python interpreter when a python script is imported or executed.
	the .pyc files contains compiled bytecode that can be directly executed by interpreter.
3).pyz is zip with header that allows it to be executed.
4).pyo is also another file extension for compiled python code files. the difference between .pyc and .pyo files is that .pyo files are compiled with optimizations enabled.
5) .pyd is windows dll files for python 

Q. Check what happens if we print math.sqrt without any parnthesis ? What happens if we print math.sqrt() without passing any number to it?
ans = if we run math.sqrt without any parenthesis then it gives information of that sqrt function like wheather its a built in function or user defined        
	function
	and if we run it with () brackets without passing any arguments then it gives type error and it says how many arguments does that sqrt function takes
	and how many i have given to that function.

Q. Can we convert .pyc file to python code? how?
ans = Yes we can convert .pyc file to python code. But for the python version > 3 its requires decompilation tools. You can get the decompiled code back
	again but it will be without the comments of the original code.
	
Q. What is Global Interpreter Lock (GIL)?
ans = In simple words its a lock that allows only one thread to hold the controle of the python interpreter. This means that only one thread can be in state of execution at any point in time. It helps in avoiding deadlock situations becoz there is only on lock on which is on the interpreter rather than resources.

Q. Which language is used to write python interpreter?
ans = C language is used to write python interpreter and its called Cpython

Q. What is advantage of garbage collector over manual memory management by the programmer ?
ans = 1)frees developer from manually release the memory.
	2)allocates objects on the managed heap efficiently
	3)Reclaims objects that are no longer being used, clears their memory, and keeps the memory available for future allocations.
	4)Provides memory safety by making sure that an object can't use for itself the memory allocated for another object.


Q. When variable is created what is on stack and what part is on heap ?
ans = the variable names i.e references of objects are stored on the stack and on the heap the actual data of objects is stored.

Q. What is garbage collector ? How reference counting works ?
ans = garbage collector automatically finds the no longer used objects and removes it from memory.
 	for each object the reference couting tracks the count of number of references to it held by by other objects. If that reference count reaches to zero, the object has become inaccessible and can be destroyed. 


